feat: enforce meta.timeout staleness on vessels.self (#2689)
SignalK/signalk-server: docs/setup/staleness.md

---
title: Stale Data Detection
---

# Stale Data Detection

When a sensor or bus stops sending data, the last received value would otherwise be displayed forever — and zone-based alerting plugins stay silent because no new delta ever arrives. Signal K Server therefore enforces `meta.timeout` on the self vessel: when a path stops updating beyond its effective timeout, the server marks the value as timed out so displays and plugins can react.

Enforcement is enabled by default and applies to `vessels.self` paths only.

## How It Works

> On a short, configurable interval the server checks every monitored path+source pair against its effective timeout. Staleness is tracked per source: if two GPS units provide `navigation.position` and one goes silent, only that source's value times out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a short, configurable interval the server checks every monitored path+source pair against its effective timeout. Staleness is tracked per source: if two GPS units provide `navigation.position` and one goes silent, only the value from that source times out. The value from the still updating GPS unit works normally.
```

> When a pair exceeds its timeout, the server emits a single delta with `value: null` and a `state` container describing what happened:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a value from a source for a certain path is not getting updated for period that exceeds its timeout, the server emits a single delta with `value: null` and a `state` container describing what happened:
```
